For identifying reasons why the shipments were late, I took a different approach then some of my classmates. Since the results of the model weren't being used to make predictions of on time delivery or late delivery, rather WHY does late delivery occur? What factors are the biggest in contributing to a late delivery? For this reason, I was okay with some data leakage that we found in the LATE CODE column because I thought that it code give us good insight. I decided to dummy encode this variable to make interpreting the results easier. I removed Days Late completely because it was redudunant for this exercise. In addition, I removed correlated variables to stablize the results of the coefficients.

The variables with the highest correlation to late deliveries include throughput, the number of days between Commit Date and Ship Date, the number of days between Order Date and Ship Date, AAAT Actual Label, Total Labor Cost, Late Code = Poor Workmanship Internally in Work Centers, Late Code = Component D late Delivery, and Routing to Work Center = R-4. Some of these are easily explainable. For instance, an increase in the number of days between Order Date/Commit Date and Ship Date would clearly extend the overall number of days in the process between customer order to delivery date. The increase of throughput as a strong variable indicates that we are having some problems scaling our processes at some point in the process which doesn't provide much guidance, but a start in asking why. I think the most interesting features here are the Poor Workmanship Internally in Work Centers, Component D late Delivery, and Routing to Work Center R-4. This tells me a few things, we may be having some quality control issues in general, maybe specifically in work center R-4, whoever is supplying component D is consistently late and effecting our overall delivery times (is there a replacement?), and Work Center R-4 may need to be audited to see what is going on that there appears to be a trend of late deliveries associated to their work.

As far as the gross margin problem, the only significant contributors to gross margin was the label costs associated to AAAA and AAAT. This is difficult to assess because I believe there is a sweet spot with labor costs where you want to have highly trained, well performing employees that reduce mistakes and improve quality. I don’t think the answer would be to cut employment but maybe review the work these groups are doing and find out if it can be automated, made more efficient, or if somebody at a lower pay grade could perform the tasks.
