Working with Data

I found this text interesting as it's main purpose seemed to be a roadmap of some best practices when beginning to clean and analyze data. Some of the information that stuck out to me is leveraging log files in addition to the information in the database. In different organizations that I worked for, we set up triggers to insert rows into the audit database to describe an action that occurred in the business database. This is what comes to my mind when the author talks about logfiles, although perhaps I should spread my horizons and take a peak into system log files. In addition to log files, the article discusses the financial information that is made available in most organizations as well. As I read the information, I took this as 3 data sources to consider when beginning a new analysis.

Another big topic was looking for errors in the database. This topic I'm not unfamiliar with. There are plenty of errors that can occur in the database whether its a result of the application not writing to the database appropriately or the user entering in something unexpected. 

I thought it might be interesting to share something I've come acrossed recently. I lead a new application development effort to automate what used to be a 300+ page PDF report the Comptroller releases each year. The legacy system allowed governmental agencies to sign in and report their expenditures for each year, and this in turn would be used to deliver the report. The new system allows the users to view expenditure information in a table or graph view for 16 historical years. However, we were limited on what we could do due to the design of the database. The developer who originally designed the database only made keys to be unique for the fiscal year being compiled. We couldn't rely on the same key being unique for each fiscal year, therefore we couldn't allow for the user to be able to see all historical data for an agency for all fiscal years. It would require a complete redesign of the database, a lot of data cleansing, and assumptions in addition to extensive work to the data entry application still available to agencies today. That costs a lot of money! This was kind of a "what's it worth to you?" situation that might be addressed in the future, but it's safe to say that being careful of normalizing databases and careful thought about the meaning of the data is extremely important.

Lastly, some other take aways I had regarding this article included some terms and technologies that would be beneficial to add to my "tools". This includes learning more about Python, R and Unix. 

Models Will Run the World

I remember reading similar articles in my undergraduate program regarding software implementations, the potential risks, and the potential competitive advantages it may provide. Many of the articles I read in my undergraduate program were a bit outdated, I'll admit. However, Models Will Run the World reminded me of them, but with a new technology. In a sense, I have my doubts about relying on models to make businesses decisions. For instance, Amazon's closed loop model can't be 100% accurate. I supposed I'm not sure exactly what all information it's capturing but if we look at it's recommendation tool and it looking at a visit I might make and my decision to buy a product it recommends or not, then I can't imagine all the information to be overly useful. In my mind, sometimes Amazon is the new Pinterest. I just look at products to dream about a house renovation I have in mind. I look at the price of things I know I can't afford at the moment. I don't think a closed loop model can fully account all the data that goes in a customer's decision to buy a product or not. What it might tell them though, is that I live in a certain part of the world, I am a certain age, I am looking at appliances so I either rent or have my own home. I probably look at an embarrassingly amount of large dog products. I'm female and I probably don't buy many things online over $x.xx amount of dollars, if I do I viewed that product 3 weeks ago, and it probably occurred around the end of the month or the 15th and hypothesis because thats when I get paid. I can see where this type of anaylsis could be more beneficial if thats what the model captures instead of a did the client buy or not during their visit, update model right then and there. I don't think the pattern of shopping really lends itself to that in a super accurate way but I can see where even the most simple analysis could be useful, but not enough to depict business strategy.