What is Data Science? By Mike Loukides

One thing that has stuck with me after reading this article is the term "data exhaust". I assume the analogy is similar to a car leaving behind exhaust every time it runs. I have always only really cared about the data intended to be collected, not the data left behind as a result of one's action. I thought that was a really interesting perspective of useful information that can be collected.

Another interesting item Loukides discussed is regarding data clean up. As a full stack developer, I design databases, convert legacy data, and implement it into the web application I'm building. Every detail is extremely particular and necessary to put a bit of consideration into to maximize efficiency. However, we're talking about relational databases here. At one point he describes how data scientist massage data in order to make sense and tell its story. In another, he talks about not needing to be as consisent and not really defining a schema, at least not in advance. It's sort of like he's saying that its necessary to clean the data, but not at first. I'm really interested to learn more about the data science spin on cleaning and making sense of so many different data sources and structures.

Doing Data Science - Cathy O'Neil & Rachel Schutt
I enjoyed reading this first Chapter of Doing Data Science published by O'Reilly. It was an easy read that in some parts made it seem like maybe I over estimated the complexities of Data Science and in other parts, scared me a bit. For instance, the chapter gives several skillsets of a data sciencist. Ones I would consider myself to have a reasonably good grasp of would be Computer Science, Math, Statistics, and communication/presentation. Machine learning, domain expertise, and data visualization I'm new at, but excited to learn! However, I found it interesting and reinforcing that the authors believed it was better to have a team of different strengths. In each job I've taken on, I've been fornuate to be in an environment where other people are better are some (and most) things than I am, but are willing to mentor me and guide me. Especially for data scientiest whose profession has such an array of skillsets, I believe a team atmopshere is essential. 

I also found it interesting that the authors are attempting to defined data science. The graph on page 14 compiled by Harlan Harris made me think of the Business Analyst job title. My previous job was in business analysis which my job duties involved not only presentations and trainings with the client, but also querying data, writing a small amounts of code, debugging code, suggesting solutions to problems, and identifying data discrepancies. Whereas, you can talk to other business analyst and they might tell you that they write product documentation and test cases. The job varies, depending where you are, to what the business need it and probably the industry the role is in too. I believe there are probably some truth to that in the data science field as well. Apparently the job identity crisis does not stop at Business Analyst.

Artifical Intelligence In The Boardroom 
	Certainly, there are many items to be discussed when deciding how a business should take on AI. What will be focused on? How will it impact their organization and stragtey by implementing AI? What could be the potential risks if they decided to opt out of the AI trend? Will they loose competitive advantage? Or will their AI efforts lead them astray? 
	Just like costly IT projects, AI can be a big risk and board members are always skeptical about their values. One section of this article I found particularly interesting is the company's accountability for accidental discrimination in AI alogrithems. If I was the Harvard professor that saw my name being associated to an arrest record that doesn't exist, I would be livid! How do you really account for a discriminatory trend in data? I can understand in terms of advertising on arrest records and purely going off of last names because thats a huge false implication. I suppose I can also see some merit in charging more females vs males therefor, less females see advertising for areas of opportunities. It leads me to wonder outside of race and gender, what areas might be a focus point for discrimination? Do businesses have to justify their data and algorithms with a behavior? What is an ethical approach regarding data that might just reflect society as a whole which isn't always the most politically correct. 

Real Potential for AI
While my understanding of market data isn't as strong as some others might be, what I took away from this article is that there are huge investments being made in AI/ML and it is certainly a growing area of interest for many organizations and a lot of capital is being invested. Machine Learning and AI has a long way to go though, especially if the most successfully implementations of these technologies are supervised. While there is real potential in AI/ML, there is also real risk for companies who are too confident in their ability to apply these technologies in a ready state. An example in the article and probably one of the infamouse example are cars that supposedly have the intelligence to drive on their own, but get in car accidents. Delivering technology such as this too early labeled as AI can scare investors and companies away from moving forward with AI and stunting the growth of the field.

MDS 556 Final Project - Kate Lemay
I found Lemay's final project to be quite intriguing. Though there are many terms and concepts I was unaware of, mostly either to do with her work for a utility company and advancement of her data science classes, I enjoyed reading her conclusions as an product of her classes here at Elmhurst. I was a bit relieved that she did her project with structured data as it relates to her place of work. I definitely hope to be able to utilize my knowledge gained here in my professional life too as quickly as I can. Lemay's work summarizes some of the items that will be coming our way quickly in the future. Something I noticed pretty quickly in her work is how much she had to do before being able to compile an anaylsis. While I'm sure this was tedious, it sounds like she got some interesting insights and also a basis for improving future analysis efforts.